ChUI.js
=======

       pO\     
      6  /\
        /OO\
       /OOOO\
     /OOOOOOOO\
    ((OOOOOOOO))
     \:~=++=~:/ 

    ChocolateChip-UI: A framework for mobile Web app development.
    ChUI.js: The magic to make it happen.

    Copyright 2012 Robert Biggs: www.choclatechip-ui.com
    License: BSD
    Version 2.0

    Includes:
    iScroll v4.2.2 ~ Copyright (c) 2011 Matteo Spinelli, http://cubiq.org
    Released under MIT license, http://cubiq.org/license

 

Variable: \$.UIVersion
----------------------

A variable to return the version number of ChocolateChip-UI.

**Example:**

    if (parseFloat($.UIVersion) < 0.5) {
        alert("You need to upgrade to a newer version of ChUI.js!");
    }

 

Variable: \$.body
-----------------

This variable holds a reference to the body tag. This is a shortcut for
accessing the body tag so you don’t have to waste processing time
getting the body tag with *\$.(“body”)*. See below.

**Example:**

    $.body.toggleClass("portrait", "landscape");
    console.log($.body.className);

 

Variable: \$.app
----------------

This variable holds a reference to the app tag. It is a shortcut for
accessing the app tag so you don’t have to waste processing time getting
the body tag with *\$.(“app”)*. See below:

**Example:**

    $.app.delegate("uibutton", "touchstart", executeMyFavFunc);

 

Variable: \$.main
-----------------

This variable holds a reference to the app’s first view. This is a
shortcut for accessing that view so you don’t have to waste processing
time getting it with *\$.(“\#main”)*. See below.

**Example:**

    $.main.UITabBar();

 

Variable: \$.views
------------------

This variable holds a reference to all the app’s views. It is a shortcut
for accessing the views so you don’t have to waste processing time
getting them with *\$\$.(“views”)*. See below:

**Example:**

    $.views.forEach(function(view) {
        view.setAttribute("ui-navigation-status", "upcoming");
    };
    $.views[0].setAttribute("ui-navigation-status", "current");

 

Function: \$.UIUuidSeed
-----------------------

A method to generate a set of four random alpha-numeric characters. This
method is used by \$.UIUuid to create a uuid for use as a unique ID of
elements in ChocolateChip-UI. If a seed is passed, you can force
\$.UIUuidSeed to generate a different number of characters. The default
value that it uses is 16, which produces four characters. Passing a seed
value of 20 would produce three alpha-numeric characters.

**Parameters:**

-   seed: An integer used to create a set of alpha-numeric values.

**See Also:**

[\$.AlphaSeed](#AlphaSeed)

[\$.UIUuid](#UIUuid)

 

Function: \$.AlphaSeed
----------------------

A method to return a random alphabetic character. This will be either
lower or upper case. This method is used by \$.UIUuid to create the
first character of a uuid. This is necessary be by default a true uuid
can begin with any alpha-numeric value. Since \$.UIUuid is for creating
unique IDs for elements, and IDs must beging with an alphabetic
character, this method is necessary.

**See Also:**

[\$.UIUuidSeed](#UIUuidSeed)

[\$.UIUuid](#UIUuid)

 

Function: \$.UIUuid
-------------------

A method to create a uuid-like value for unique IDs on elements. This
method uses \$.UIUuidSeed and \$.AlphaSeed to generate a uuid-like value
for use as IDs. The value returned has the format:
xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx. Although this is not a true uuid,
the basic format and possibility of a duplicate being generated in an
app are extremely unlikely.

**Example:**

    // Set a unique ID on each tablecell in the 3rd view:
    $("view:nth-of-type(3) tablecell).forEach(function(cell) {
        cell.setAttribute("id", $.UIUuid()); 
    });

Another useful way of identifying nodes in a collection is to use the
Element.UIIdentifyChildNodes method. This identifies each node in a
collection with an attribute *ui-child-position* and a numeric value
indicating the nodes position in the collection.

**See Also:**

[\$.AlphaSeed](#AlphaSeed)

[\$.UIUuidSeed](#UIUuidSeed)

[Element.UIIdentifyChildNodes](#UIIdentifyChildNodes)

 

Function: \$.resetApp
---------------------

A method to reset the defaults of an app. This clear’s the app’s cache
if it has one, clears the navigation history and returns the user to the
main screen.

**Example:**

    $.resetApp();

**See Also:**

[\$.UINavigationHistory](#UINavigationHistory)

 

Function: Element.UIIdentifyChildNodes
--------------------------------------

A method to identify the position of child nodes in a collection. Often
you may find yourself looping through the child nodes of an element
looking for which element is the one you need to change a value on based
on a particular set of circumstances. To alleviate the need to loop
through child nodes, ChocolateChip-UI provides this method that allows
you to identify the position of child nodes with *ui-child-position* and
a numeric value starting with 0. This means that you can query a child
node’s *ui-child-position* attribute to find out what its position is in
the collection. This is especially convenient where interaction with one
set of elements triggers a reaction on another set of corresponding
elements, such as segmented controls and panels. By getting the
*ui-child-position* value to the segmented control’s segment, we can
then hide or show the appropriate corresponding panel in the panel
collection. It’s simple to use, just execute it on the element whose
child nodes you want to identify.

**Example:**

    // Number all tablecells in the tableview of view "main":
    $("#main tableview").UIIdentifyChildNodes();

    $("tablecell", this).on("touchstart", function() {
        console.log("This item is at position: " + this.getAttribute("ui-child-position"));
    });

**See Also:**

[\$.UIUuid](#UIUuid)

 

Function: Element.UIToggleButtonLabel
-------------------------------------

A method to toggle the label value of a uibutton. There are cases where
when implementing a user interaction you want the button’s label to
toggle between two values. You might also want to toggle a class on the
button or and *ui-implements* value as well. To do this you simply pass
this method the two label values you wish to toggle. The first value
will be the default value of the uibutton’s label.

**Parameters:**

-   label1: A string defining the default value for the uibutton label.
-   label2: A string defining the secondary value for the uibutton
    label.

**Example:**

    $(toolbar + " > uibutton[ui-implements=edit]").on("click", function() {
        if ($("label", this).text() === "Edit") {
            this.UIToggleButtonLabel("Edit", "Done");
            this.setAttribute("ui-implements", "done");
        }
    });

 

Array: UINavigationHistory
--------------------------

An array to store the ids of views through which the user has navigated.
\$.UIBackNavigation uses this to store which views the user was on and
to pop them out successively for backward navigation. The default value
is “\#main”. This means **the first view of every WAML document must
have an id of \#main or navigation will not work**.

**See Also:**

[\$.UIBackNavigation](#UIBackNavigation)

[\$.UINavigationList](#UINavigationList)

[\$.UINavigateToView](#UINavigateToView)

 

Function: \$.UIBackNavigation
-----------------------------

A method to navigate back to the previous view from whence the user
came. This method uses an event delegate on the app tag to listen for
clicks on all uibuttons with the attribute ‘ui-implements=”back”’. The
method gets its destination by popping the value out of the
\$.UINavigationHistory array. This menu also implements page transitions
by changing the ui-navigation-status of the views. The current view will
always have a ui-navigation-status of “current”. When navigating back,
the current view’s ui-navigation-status is changed to “upcoming”, and
the previous view’s ui-navigation-status is changed to current. These
changes cause the current view to transition out of view to the right
and the previous view to transition into view from the left.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIBackNavigation();

**See Also:**

[\$.UINavigationHistory](#UINavigationHistory)

[\$.UINavigationList](#UINavigationList)

[\$.UINavigateToView](#UINavigateToView)

 

\$.UINavigationList
-------------------

A method for implementing drilldown navigation for table lists. This
method uses an event delegate on the app tag and listens for a click or
touch on a table cell with a href attribute. When a table cell has a
href attribute, this method change’s that view’s ui-navigation-status
from “upcoming” to “current”, which cause it to slide into view from the
right. At the same time, it changes the current view’s
ui-navigation-status to “traversed”, causing it to transition out of
view to the left.

Because a user may touch a navigation list item several times,
\$.UINavigationList has built in detection for multiples touches. Most
of the time this prevents the navigation from executing too many forward
moves. However, occasionally the app may attempt to navigate too many
steps ahead, resulting in a state where there is no current view.
\$.NavigationList can detect such a state and will reset itself to the
last valid current view while also resetting the navigation history for
back navigation.

**See Also**

[\$.UIBackNavigation](#UIBackNavigation)

 

\$.UINavigateToView
-------------------

The navigation list allows you to create linear forward and backward
navigation for your app. However there will be situations where you need
to allow the user to brach off from the navigation to a different view
for some task. This method allows you to do so while adding the current
view to the navigation stack. Just putting a "Back" button on the
destination will allow the user to get back to the previous view. The
method takes one argument, the view to which you wish to go to.

    $("#summaryButton").on("click", function() {
       $.UINavigateToView("#activitySummaryView");
    });

**See Also**

[\$.UINavigationHistory](#UINavigationHistory)

[\$.UINavigationList](#UINavigationList)

[\$.UIBackNavigation](#UIBackNavigation)

 

Array: \$.UIScrollers
---------------------

This is an array of all current iScroll objects in the app. You you
change the content of a subview or view with an AJAX request or some
type of DOM manipulation, you can reset the scroller by getting the
scrollpanel’s *ui-scroller* property and using that value with
\$.UIScrollers to call iScroll’s *refresh* method. (See example below:)

**Example:**

    var updateScroller = $("#secondView > scrollpanel").getAttribute("ui-scroller");
    $.UIScrollers[updateScroller].refresh();

**See Also:**

[\$.iScroll](#iScroll)

 

Function: iScroll
-----------------

A method to implement scrolling of a container. This is based on iScroll
by Matteo Spinelli: [cubiq.org](http://cubiq.org). This is the latest
version (4.1.9) from GitHub with a few minor changes. I’ve added in the
option to turn off mouse gestures and mouse wheel tracking on the
desktop.

**Example:**

    var opts = { hScroll: false, disableMouseWheel: true };
    var scroller = new iScroll($("#myNewScrollPanel", opts);

The version of iScroll used here has been modified to include the
options to disable mouse wheel interaction and mouse gestures, as well
as a slight modification to make sure that form elements such as select
boxes, check boxes and radio buttons can get focus. By default mouse
wheel and mouse gesture interaction is set to true. If you have a lot of
vertical carousels you may want to turn off mouse wheel interaction. You
can do this by passing iScroll the parameter **disableMouseWheel:
false**. Similarly, to turn off mouse gestures for the desktop pass in
this parameter: **mouseGestures: false**

**See Also:**

[\$.UIEnableScrolling](#UIEnableScrolling)

[\$.UIScrollers](#UIScrollers)

[iScroll Site](http://cubiq.org/iscroll-4)

 

Function: \$.UIEnableScrolling
------------------------------

A method to implement automatic scrolling for all scroll panels inside
of subviews. This does so by executes iScroll on each scroll panel in
the app. By default this executes when the DOMContentLoaded event fires,
or when there is a screen resize or orientation change. If you
dynamically create a view or subview with a scroll panel and want to
implement scrolling on it, you can do so as illustrated in the example
below.

**Example:**

    $.UIEnableScrolling({ desktopCompatibility: true });

**See Also:**

[iScroll](#iScroll)

[\$.UIScrollers](#UIScrollers)

 

Function: \$.UIPaging
---------------------

A method to implement horizontal paging through a set of panels in a
stack. For this to work the stack must have the attribute
*ui-implements=”paging”*. This method is executed automatically at load
time when ChocolateChip-UI find a stack with the above attribute, so you
don’t need to do anything but create the structure for the paging
control. Because of the limited horizontal space in handheld devices the
maximum number of pagable panels is 17. If you need more than that then
you should look at using the segmented paging control.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIPaging(selector, options);

**Parameters:**

\$.UIPaging gets executed during DOMContentLoaded event and attempts to
find a stack tag as follows:

    stack[ui-implements=paging]

It then executes the function with predefined options:

    $.UIPaging("stack[ui-implements=paging] > panel", {
        snap: true,
        momentum: false,
        hScrollbar: false,
        onScrollEnd: function () {
            document.querySelector('stack[ui-implements="indicators"] > indicator.active').removeClass('active');
            document.querySelector('stack[ui-implements="indicators"] > indicator:nth-child(' + (this.currPageX+1) + ')').addClass('active');
        }
    });

**Example:**

    <stack ui-implements="paging">
        <panel>
            <stack>
                <panel>
                    <h4>Panel 1</h4>
                    <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod.</p>
                </panel>
                <panel>
                    <h4>Panel 2</h4>
                    <p>Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium.</p>
                </panel>
                <panel>
                    <h4>Panel 3</h4>
                    <p>Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt.</p>
                </panel>
                <panel>
                    <h4>Panel 4</h4>
                    <p> Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem.</p>
                </panel>
            </stack>
        </panel>
    </stack>

**See Also:**

[Element.UISegmentedPagingControl](#UISegmentedPagingControl)

A method to implement a paging control with dots along the bottom to
indicate page position. This is used for horizontal scrolling with a
swipe gesture to navigate through a small collection of panels, not more
than 17. If you have a need to navigate through more than 17 you should
look into using the [segmented paging
control](#UISegmentedPagingControl).

 

Array: \$.UIDeletableTableCells
-------------------------------

An array of table cells chosen for deletion. This array is created and
used by \$.UIDeleteTableCell. As the user picks cells for deletion, they
are added to this cache.

**See Also:**

[\$.UIDeleteTableCell](#UIDeleteTableCell)

[\$.UIResetDeletionList](#UIResetDeletionList)

 

Function: \$.UIDeleteTableCell
------------------------------

A method to enable deletion of table cells. It does this by creating an
Edit and Delete uibutton which it inserts into the designated navbar or
toolbar. It also creates and inserts delete indicators into each cell of
the table. An event is registered on the Edit uibutton. When the user
touches it, its name changes to Done and delete indicators are revealed
on each table cell. If the user makes no choice and touches the Done
uibutton, it hides the delete indicators and changes the Done uibutton
back to the Edit uibutton. If a user does chose and item to delete and
touches the Done uibutton, the delete indicators are hidden: nothing was
done. If the user chooses one or more delete indicators and touches the
Delete uibutton, they are deleted. The use can also select and unselect
a delete indicator uibutton repeatedly touching it. By default, when the
delete indicators are revealed, the Delete uibutton is disabled. As soon
as the user selects a delete indicator, the Delete uibutton is enabled.
But if the user deselects any selected delete indicator, the Delete
uibutton will again be disabled.

This method accepts a callback to be executed when the user has selected
deletion disclosures and touches the Delete uibutton, allowing you to
update whatever data is relevant to the user’s choice. The method allows
you to reference each deleted item through a parameter of your choice
passed into the callback. For example, in the following callback, the
parameter cell will automatically refer to every cell chosen for
deletion:

    var handleCellDeletion = function( cell ) {
        $.deleteLocalStorage(cell.data("localStorage-key"));
    };

\$.UIDeleteTableCell uses three internal function to handle its
functionality: UIEditExecution, UIDeleteDisclosureSelection,
UIDeletionExecution. UIEditExecution handles the user interaction with
the Edit uibutton, which includes showing the deletion disclosures and
Delete uibutton and changing the Edit uibutton to Done.
UIDeleteDisclosureSelection handles selection and deselection of
deletion disclosures, including updating the \$.UIDeletableTableCells
array of deletable cells, as well as enabling and disabling of the
Delete uibutton. UIDeletionExecution handles deleting the cells cached
in the \$.UIDeletableTableCells array.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIDeleteTableCell : function({selector, toolbar, callback, editButton, deleteButton});

**Parameters:**

Originally the delete method used these parameters:

-   selector: A valid CSS selector.
-   toolbar: A navbar or toolbar in which to insert the Edit and Delete
    uibuttons.
-   callback: A method to execute when the delete uibutton is touched.

As of version 1.0, this method takes an object literal of options:

-   selector: A valid CSS selector.
-   editButton: An array to two values for the Edit/Done uibutton.
-   deleteButton: A string value for the delete uibutton.
-   toolbar: A navbar or toolbar in which to inser the Edit and Delete
    uibuttons.
-   callback: A method to execute when the delete uibutton is touched.

**Example:**

    // OLD WAY:
    // Implement deletion without a callback:
    $.UIDeleteTableCell(".deletable-items1","#toolbar1");

    // Cell deletion with a callback:
    var deleteItem = function(item) {
        console.log("You've deleted table cell: " + item.id);
        $.deleteLocalStorage(item.id);
    };
    $.UIDeleteTableCell(".deletable-items1","#toolbar1", deleteItem);

    // NEW WAY:
    // Implement deletion without a callback:
    $.UIDeleteTableCell(".deletable-items1","#toolbar1");

    // Cell deletion with a callback:
    var deleteItem = function(item) {
        console.log("You've deleted table cell: " + item.id);
        $.deleteLocalStorage(item.id);
    };
    $.UIDeleteTableCell({selector: ".deletable-items1", toolbar: "#toolbar1", editButton: ["Change", "Finished"], deleteButton: "Kill", callback: deleteItem});

**See Also:**

[\$.UIDeletableTableCells](#UIDeletableTableCells)

[\$.UIResetDeletionList](#UIResetDeletionList)

Function: \$.UIResetDeletionList
--------------------------------

Sometimes you may need to allow the user to switch to some other task on
a page where you have a deletion list enabled. For those situations you
can use \$.UIResetDeletionList to unselect any list items and set the
interface back to the way it was. The method takes two arguments: the
tableview id and the navbar or toolbar where the "Edit" button was
placed.


    $(function() {
       $("uibutton[ui-implements=back]").on('click', function() {
          $.UIResetDeletionList("#itemsToPurchase","#purchaseView navbar");
       });
    });

**See Also:**

[\$.UIDeletableTableCells](#UIDeletableTableCells)

[\$.UIDeleteTableCell](#UIDeleteTableCell)

 

Function: Element.UIBlock
-------------------------

A method to create a translucent cover/mask over the screen of the
browser, desktop or mobile device. It checks to see if there is not
already a screen cover at this location. The screen cover is created
with a ui-visible-state value of “hidden” and prevents any interaction
with the covered interface. This method is used by \$.UIPopUp,
\$.UIShowActionSheet, \$.UIPopover.show and \$.UICheckForSplitView.

If for some reason you wanted to cover the screen and show a custom
control or message on top of it, you could do so as illustrated in the
example below.

**Example:**

    $("view:first-of-type").UIBlock();

**See Also:**

[\$.UIUnblock](#UIUnblock)

[\$.UIPopUp](#UIPopUp)

[\$.UIActionSheet](#UIActionSheet)

[\$.UIShowActionSheet](#UIShowActionSheet)

[\$.UIHideActionSheet](#UIHideActionSheet)

 

Function: Element.UIUnblock
---------------------------

A method to remove any mask created by Element.UIBlock(). This gets
called by and \$.UIHideActionSheet, \$.UIPopover.hide,
\$.UICheckForSplitView.

**See Also:**

[\$.UIBlock](#UIBlock)

 

Variable: \$.UIPopUpIsActive
----------------------------

A variable to keeping track of whether a popup is displayed or not. This
is used by ChocolateChip-UI to know to adjust a popup on orientation
change. It is a boolean value: true or false.

 

Variable: \$.UIPopUpIdentifier
------------------------------

A variable to hold an identifier for the popup. The value is the
selector indicating the parent container of the popup to distinguish it
from other possible popups. This gets set by the \$.UIShowPopUp method
and is accessed by the \$.UIPositionPopUp and
\$.UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange methods.

 

Function: \$.UIPopUp
--------------------

A method for construction a popup. It creates both a screen cover and a
popup. The popup will have a Cancel and Continue uibutton by default.
Both of these will automatically close the popup. It will have a default
title of “Alert!”.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIPopup(options);

**Parameters:**

-   options: An object literal with the following possible values:
    -   selector: A selector for the container into which the popup will
        be inserted. This allows you to have popups in different areas
        of your app. If no selector is supplied it defaults to the app
        tag.
    -   title: A title for the popup to display. The default is
        “Alert!”.
    -   message: A message to display under the title. This should be
        some type of instruction or informative message so the user
        knows why the popup has appeared and what to do next.
    -   cancelUIButton: An alternate name for the Cancel uibutton. It’s
        default is Cancel.
    -   continueUIButton: And alternate name for the Continue uibutton.
        It’s default is Continue.
    -   callback: A function to execute when the user touches the
        Continue uibutton.

**Example:**

    var myOptions = {
    selector: "#main",
    title: 'Attention Viewers!', 
    message: 'This is a message from the sponsors. Please stay seated while we are getting ready. Thank you for your patience.', 
    cancelUIButton: 'Skip', 
    continueUIButton: 'Stay tuned', 
    callback: function() {
        var popupMessageTarget = document.querySelector('#popupMessageTarget');
        popupMessageTarget.textContent = 'Thanks for staying with us a bit longer.';
        popupMessageTarget.className = "";
        popupMessageTarget.className = "animatePopupMessage";
        }
    };
    $.UIPopUp(myOptions);

**See Also:**

[\$.UIShowPopUp](#UIShowPopUp)

[\$.UIPopUpIsActive](#UIPopUpIsActive)

[\$.UIPopUpIdentifier](#UIPopUpIdentifier)

 

Function: \$.UIShowPopUp
------------------------

A method to show a popup. It first displays the screen cover, disabling
interaction with the interface underneath, and then displays the popup.
It does this by setting the ui-visible-state value of both of these to
“visible”. It also invokes \$.UIPositionScreenCover and
\$.UIPositionPopUp to position the screen cover and popup on the screen
properly.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIShowPopUp(selector);

**Parameters:**

-   string: A valid selector for the parent of the tab control. This
    will be used to find the actual popup, which is a child node of this
    selector.

**Example:**

    $("#openPopup").on("click", function() {
        $.UIShowPopUp("#main");
    });

**See Also:**

[\$.UIPopUp](#UIPopUp)

[\$.UIPositionScreenCover](#UIPositionmask)

[\$UIPositionPopUp](#UIPositionPopUp)

[\$.UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange](#UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange)

[\$.UIPopUpIsActive](#UIPopUpIsActive)

[\$.UIPopUpIdentifier](#UIPopUpIdentifier)

 

Function: \$.UIPositionmask
---------------------------

A method to make the screen cover extend the entire width of the
document, even if it extends beyond the viewport. We do this by getting
the window’s pageYOffset in case the user has scrolled down a really
long document. This method gets invoked by \$.UIShowPopUp and
\$.UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange.

**See Also:**

[\$.UIShowPopUp](#UIShowPopUp)

[\$.UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange](#UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange)

 

Function: \$.UIPositionPopUp
----------------------------

A method to center the popup. It does this to the scrollview not the
screen in order to accomodate the instances where the document is
scrolled down below the original viewport. This gets invoked by
\$.UIShowPopUp and \$.UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange.

**See Also:**

[\$.UIShowPopUp](#UIShowPopUp)

[\$.UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange](#UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange)

 

Function: \$.UIRepositionPopupOnOrientationChange
-------------------------------------------------

A method to handle centering the popup when orientation changes or when
there is a desktop window resize. It first checks \$.UIPopUpIsActive and
then invokes \$.UIPositionScreenCover and \$.UIPositionPopUp.

**See Also:**

[\$.UIPopUpIsActive](#UIPopUpIsActive)

[\$.UIPositionPopUp](#UIPositionPopUp)

[\$.UIPopUpIdentifier](#UIPopUpIdentifier)

 

Function: Element.UISelectionList
---------------------------------

A method to initialize a list of single choice options, similar to how a
group of radio butons work. It takes as the main argument, a unique
selector identifying the view or section where the radio list resides.

**Syntax:**

    $.UISelectionList(selector);

**Parameters:**

-   function: A valid function as a callback. This is optional. The
    callback gets passed a reference to the clicked item, so you can
    access it in your callback function.

**Example:**

    $.UISelectionList("#buyerOptions");
       // Output the value of the selected item.
       // Each tablecell has its value set in the "ui-value" attribute.
       // We therefore get that value to do whater we need to do with it.
    $("#buyerOptions").UISelectionList(function(item){
        console.log(item.getAttribute("ui-value"));
    });

Function: Element.UICreateSwitchControl
---------------------------------------

A method to create a SwitchControl. This widget has been updated to
handle the new iOS 5 style switch controls. To get the older version of
switches used in iOS 4 and below, you need to pass it a value of
*ui-kind=traditional*. The new switches don’t use labels requiring
localization. Instead they use international standard symbols for state:
“ON” is a vertical line, “OFF” is a circle. You can get a version of
this switch control but without the symbols by passing it an argument
value of *ui-kind=generic*.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UICreateSwitchControl(options);

**Parameters:**

-   object literal: an object of possible values for the switch control:
    -   id: and id for the switch control. and id must be supplied.
    -   kind: an optional value of “traditional” for the old style
        switches, or “generic” for a simpler version of the new style.
    -   uiImplements: an optional value of “attention” that gives the
        switch contorl a bright orange background.
    -   status: either “on” or “off”, the default is “off”.
    -   value: any integer or string value.
    -   callback: a function to execute when the switch is flipped to
        the “on” position.

**Example:**

    var opts = { 
        id : "bingo1000",
        status : "off",
        value : "$2,000",
        callback : function() {
            completeTransation(this.id);
        }
    }

    $("#specialList > tablecell:first-of-type").UICreateSwitchControl(opts);

    $("#myListItem").UICreateSwitchControl({
        id : "switch_001",
        status : "on",
        implements: 'attention',
        value : 100,
        callback : function() {
            // executeTransaction would be defined elsewhere.
            // Pass in the switch's ID to the method as a reference:
            executeTransaction(this.id);
        }
    }

    $("#userListItem2").UICreateSwitchControl({
        id : "userChoice2",
        status : "off",
        kind : "traditional"
        value : "increase the yumminess",
        callback : function() {
            postTheRequest(this.id);
        }
    }

**Note:** When using a switch control make sure that its parent
container has positioning set to either relative or absolute. This is
because ChocolateChip-UI uses absolute positioning to place the switch
control on the right side of its container. If the container does not
have some type of positioning, the switch control will appear placed
somewhere towards the top right of the document. Of course, if you know
the container already has positioning, you don’t need to bother setting
it. Tablecells already have positioning set. See example below for how
to set a container’s position before injecting a switch control:

    var opts = {/* options for switchcontrol */};
    // Make sure the switch control's parent has positioning set:
    $("#menu").css("{position: relative;}");
    $("#menu").UIUICreateSwitchControl(opts);

**See Also:**

[Element.UICreateSwitchControl](#UICreateSwitchControl)

[Element.UIInitSwitchToggling](#UIInitSwitchToggling)

 

;

Function: Element.UISwitchControl
---------------------------------

A method to toggle the state of an iPhone switch control. This also sets
the state of the control’s “checked” value to true or false. This value
can be queried to see if it is switch is on or off. This method gets
executed by the element.UIInitSwitchToggling method.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UISwitch();

**Example:**

    // Toggle the state of the switch control:
    $("#menu").UISwitch();

[Element.UISwitchControl](#UISwitchControl)

[Element.UIInitSwitchToggling](#UIInitSwitchToggling)

Function: Element.UIInitSwitchToggling
--------------------------------------

A method to initialize the toggling of switch controls. By default
ChococlateChip-UI call this on the app tag. If you create any switch
controls dynamically, you’ll need to initialize their toggling. You can
invoke this method on the list that contains them. See example below.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIInitSwitchToggling();

**Example:**

    $("app").UIInitSwitchToggling();
    // or:
    $$("tableview.withSwitchControls").forEach(table) {
        table.UIInitSwitchToggling();
    });

[Element.UISwitchControl](#UISwitchControl)

[Element.UICreateSwitchControl](#UICreateSwitchControl)

 

Function: Element.UICreateSegmentedControl
------------------------------------------

A method to create and insert a segmented control into a container. The
segmented control consists of two or more uibuttons joined together.
Both ends of the control are rounded. The segmented control can be used
to execution actions or to page through several subviews. If a segmented
control is inserted into a navbar or toolbar, its uibuttons will have
the typical look appropriate to those bars. If the segmented control is
inserted into a subview, it has a unique styling. When in a subview, you
can choose to have the segmented control collapse to fit its content, or
expand the width of the screen with margins on the left and right. When
designating values in the options for the segmented control, values for
segmented, such as to indicate a selected or disabled segment, start
from 1.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UICreateSegmentedControl(options);

**Parameters:**

-   id: an id for the segmented control
-   placement: for inserting in a navbar, possible values: “left”,
    “center”, “right”
-   numberOfSegments: anything from 2 on up
-   titlesOfSegments: an array of titles for the segmented controls
    uibuttons [“One”, “Two”, “Three”]. If you want a segment not to have
    a title, put and empty string “” in its place: [“One”, “”, “Two”]
-   iconsOfSegments: if you want to add icons to the segmented control’s
    uibuttons enter their names here using an array. Use empty strings
    for uibuttons without icons: [“”, “add”, “info”].
-   placementOfIcons: to designate the place of icons pass an array
    using empty strings for uibuttons were there are no icons: [“”,
    “right”, “”]. If you have designated icons without indicating their
    placement, they will be placed by default on the left of the
    uibutton label.
-   selectedSegment: if you wish to designate a segment as selected,
    enter its position here. Possible numbers start from 1.
-   disabledSegment: if you wish to designate a segment as disabled,
    enter its position here. Possible numbers start from 1.

**Example:**

     var seg = {
        id : "segmented_001",
        placement : "left",
        fullWidth : "false",
        numberOfSegments : 3,
        titlesOfSegments : ["One", "Two", "Three"],
        iconsOfSegments : ["", "add", "info"],
        placementOfIcons : ["", "right", ""],
        selectedSegment : 1,
        disabledSegment : 3                
    };
    $("#segmentedToolbar").UICreateSegmentedControl(seg, "first");

**See Also:**

[Element.UISegmentedControl](#UISegmentedControl)

 

Function: Element.UISegmentedControl
------------------------------------

A method to handle toggling of a UISegementedControl’s uibuttons. This
get’s called during the DOMContentLoaded event so that all segmented
controls have basic toggling of uibuttons. If you create a segmented
control dynamically, you can call this method on it to enable toggling.
See example below.

By passing an argument for a container with child nodes you can
implement a segmented control that toggles the visibility of
corresponding panels, similar to a tab bar. For this to work each panel
must correspond to a segment. If there are more panels then segments,
the segmented control will only be able to reveal the panels that
numerically correspond to the number of segments. If there are more
segments than panels, you will get an error. You cannot create a
segmented control where some segments toggle the visibility of panels
and other segments perform actions. This would be very bad usability
anyway.

**Synatx:**

    Element.UISegmentedControl(callback);
    Element.UISegmentedControl(callback, container);

**Paramters:**

-   callback: A function to execute when a segmented is touched.
-   container: An optional container of elements which correspond to
    each segment of the control.

**Example:**

    $$("segmentedcontrol").forEach(function(segmentedcontrol) {
        segmentedcontrol.UISegmentedControl();
    });    

    // A segmented control that toggles the child nodes of a container:
    var logChildPosition = function(item) {
        console.log("The child position is: " + item.getAttribute("ui-child-position"));
    }
    $("segmentedcontrol").UISegmentedControl(logChildPosition, "#stackpanel_1");

**See Also:**

[Element.UICreateSegmentedControl](#UICreateSegmentedControl)

[Element.UISegmentedPagingControl](#UISegmentedPagingControl)

 

Function: Element.UISegmentedPagingControl
------------------------------------------

A method to implement subview paging with a specialized segmented
control. To create a segmented control for paging two attributes are
required: *ui-implements=”segmented-paging”* and *ui-paging*, which can
have a value of “vertical” or “horizontal”. When the *ui-paging* value
is “horizontal”, the segmented paging control will consist of two
segmented buttons with arrows pointing left and right. When the value is
“vertical”, the arrows will be pointing down and up. When touching the
right arrow, subviews slide in from the right. Touching the left arrow
slides them out to the left. Touching the up arrow will slide subviews
up from below. Touching the down arrow will slide them back down out of
view. For either set, the segmented button automatically disables when
there are no more subviews to navigate, leaving only the opposite
direction as a choice.

This method is executed on the view whose subviews you wish to page
through. It identifies the segmented control by the
*ui-implements=”segmented-paging”* attribute, then it identifies the
subviews that it will page. Based on the value of the *ui-paging*
attribute on the segmented paging control, it sets up CSS transitions
for the subviews. This paging control is not like a normal segmented
control or tab bar in that it can have any number of subviews to page
through.

Normally you will put the segmented paging control a navbar using
*ui-bar-align=”right”*. When using vertical paging, subviews slide up
and down underneath any navbars, toolbars or tab bars.

**See Also:**

[Element.UICreateSegmentedControl](#UICreateSegmentedControl)

[Element.UISegmentedControl](#UISegmentedControl)

 

Function: Element.UICreateTabBar
--------------------------------

A method to create a tab bar for toggling a set of subviews. Based on
the values passed in as an object literal, the method constructs and tab
bar and inserts it into the targeted view. The subviews that it toggles
will sit between it and any top navbar or toolbar.

**Syntax:**

    var opts = {
        id : "tabbar_001",
        numberOfTabs : 5,
        imagePath : "myIcons\/",
        iconsOfTabs : ["refresh", "add", "info", "downloads", "top_rated"],
        tabLabels : ["Refresh", "Add", "Info", "Downloads", "Favorite"],
        selectedTab : 2
    };
    $("#main").UICreateTabBar(opts);

**Parameters:**

-   id : a unique id for the tab bar. You could use \$.UIUuid if you
    want or whatever id works for you.
-   numberOfTabs : An integer indicating the number of tabs. Please not
    that on a mobile device in portrait mode the maximum number of tabs
    that can fit is five.
-   imagePath : The path to where the tabs’ icons are. This defaults to
    “icons/” if none is supplied.
-   iconsOfTabs : And array of icon names to be used by each tab. You
    only need to supply the icon name, not the path or the file
    extension. This expects an SVG icon. By default all ChocolateChip-UI
    icons are stored in the “icons” folder.
-   tabLabels : An array of labels that appear below the tab icons.
-   selectedTab : An integer indicating a default selected state for the
    tab bar. By default the first tab and its subview will be selected.
    Numbering starts from 0.

**See Also:**

[Element.UITabBar](#UITabBar)

[Element.UITabBarForViews](#UITabBarForViews)

 

Function: Element.UITabBar
--------------------------

A method for toggling a set of subviews. This method gets executed when
a tab bar is created or, if you have created a tab bar manually, you can
invoke it on the view where the tab bar resides. It takes no arguments
but automatically finds the tab bar in the view and identifies the
subviews to toggle.

**Syntax:**

    $("#main").UITabBar();

**See Also:**

[Element.UICreateTabBar](#UICreateTabBar)

[Element.UITabBarForViews](#UITabBarForViews)

 

Function: Element.UITabBarForViews
----------------------------------

A method for toggling a set of views. This method works with a manually
coded tab bar and a set of views which you wish to toggle. Since views
are being toggled, this will also toggle a view’s navbar. You need to
indicate which views will be toggled by giving the views an attribute of
`ui-implements="tabbar-panel"`. The views will be bound to the tab bar's
tabs in the order in which the views appear in the markup.

**Example:**

    $(function() {
        $.app.UITabBarForViews();
    });

#### Markup for the view

    <view ui-implements="tabbar-panel" ui-navigation-status="upcoming"></view>

When you bind views to a tab bar for display, that binding overrides the
devault sliding animation of navigation lists and instead hides and show
the views abruptly. The sliding transition of the navigation list is to
give the user a sense of drilling down into the application. The tab bar
is not used to drill down but to simply show alternate views of the same
data or related data. As such it eskews the navigation transitions.

To initialize a tab bar for views, just execute this method on the app
tag. It will look for the marked views and make them togglable.

Bear in mind that on cell phones there is normally only room for five
tabs in portrait mode. If you need to toggle more than five views, or
less than three, you should really reconsider how you are presenting
your data to use a simpler approach for the end user.

To see a working example of a tab bar with views, look for
**tabbar-views.html** in the examples folder.

**See Also:**

[Element.UITabBar](#UITabBar)

[Element.UICreateTabBar](#UICreateTabBar)

 

Function: Element.UIActionSheet
-------------------------------

Method to create an action sheet. This is a special modal control to
present the user with action uibuttons to accomplish a particular task.
By default the action sheet has a cancel uibutton. You may add another
three uibuttons. It’s recommended not to exceed four action uibuttons as
it becomes difficult to access them in horizontal mode. The action sheet
has a default bluish color, but you can choose to instead display it as
a translucent black.

\$.UIActionSheet uses three methods internally to manage its affairs:
hide(), show() and readustActionSheet(). \$.UIReadjustActionSheet gets
executed automatically when there is an orientation change.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIActionSheet(options);

**Parameters:**

-   id : an id for the action sheet.
-   title : A title, such as: “This is an Annoucement!”,
-   color : “blue” or “black”, (blue is the default).
-   uibuttons : an array of uibuttons properties, each uibutton as a
    separate object literal:
    -   [{ title : “Delete”, uibuttonImplements : “delete”, callback :
        “respondToDeleteUIButton” },
    -   { title : “Save”, uibuttonImplements : “save”, callback :
        “respondToSaveUIButton”}]

**Example:**

    var opts = {
        id : "actionsheet_01",
        title : "This is an Annoucement!",
        color : "black",
        uibuttons : [
            { title : "Delete", uibuttonImplements : "delete", callback : "respondToDeleteUIButton" },
            { title : "Save", uibuttonImplements : "save", callback : "respondToSaveUIButton"
            }
        ]
    };
    $.body.UIActionSheet(opts);

**See Also:**

[\$.UIScreenCover](#UIScreenCover)

[\$.UIShowActionSheet](#UIShowActionSheet)

[\$.UIHideActionSheet](#UIHideActionSheet)

[\$.UIReadjustActionSheet](#UIReadjustActionSheet)

 

Function: \$.UIShowActionSheet
------------------------------

A method to show an action sheet. When this method show an action sheet,
it also stores a special attribute on the app tag “ui-action-sheet-id”
to store the id of the displayed action sheet. This value is used by
UIReadjustActionSheet when the device orientation changes to know which
action sheet is presently displayed.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIShowActionSheet(id);

**Parameters:**

-   id: a valid id for an action sheet.

**Example:**

    $("#UIButtonAction").on("touchstart", function() {
        $.UIShowActionSheet(actionsheet_01);
    });

**See Also:**

[\$.UIHideActionSheet](#UIHideActionSheet)

[\$.UIReadjustActionSheet](#UIReadjustActionSheet)

 

Function: \$.UIHideActionSheet
------------------------------

A method to hide an action sheet. This method also removes the id of the
action sheet being hidden from the app tag’s “ui-action-sheet-id”
attribute. This method get executed automatically by the action sheet’s
Cancel uibutton.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIHideActionSheet(id);

**Parameters:**

-   id: a valid id for an action sheet.

**Example:**

    $("#displayActionSheet").on("click", function() {
        $.UIShowActionSheet("#Dingo");
    });

**See Also:**

[\$.UIShowActionSheet](#UIShowActionSheet)

[\$.UIReadjustActionSheet](#UIReadjustActionSheet)

 

Function: \$.UIReadjustActionSheet
----------------------------------

A method to readjust the positioning of an action sheet after
orientation change. You never need to use this function.

**Example:**

    document.addEventListener("orientationchange", function() {
        $.UIReadjustActionSheet();
    });

**See Also:**

[\$.UIShowActionSheet](#UIShowActionSheet)

[\$.UIHideActionSheet](#UIHideActionSheet)

 

Function: Element.UIExpander
----------------------------

A method for creating an expander. This was inspired by the WebOS
expander control. This is used to allow collapsing and expanding of a
vertical section of the app, similar to a typical Web accordion control.
Unlike the accordion, the expander is for a single collapsible section.
It requires a specialized tag: **expander**.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIExpander(options);

**Parameters:**

-   options: an object literal of possible options.
    -   status: “collapsed” or “expanded”, the default is expanded.
    -   title: a title for the label, the default is “Open”.
    -   altTitle: a title for when the expander is closed, the default
        is “Close”.

**Example:**

    $(function() {
        var opts = {
            status: "collapsed",
            title: "Open",
            altTitle: "Close"
        };    
        $("expander").UIExpander(opts);
    });

    <expander>
        <panel>
            <tableview ui-kind="grouped">
                <tablecell>
                    <celltitle>Breakfast</celltitle>
                </tablecell>
                <tablecell>
                    <celltitle>Lunch</celltitle>
                </tablecell>
                <tablecell>
                    <celltitle>Dinner</celltitle>
                </tablecell>
            </tableview>
        </panel>
    </expander>

In the above markup notice that the content is in a panel inside the
expander. ChocolateChip-UI will find the expander and create a header
tag with a label based on the title/altTitle values you supply,
otherwise the label gets the default of “Open”/”Close”.

 

Function: Element.UICalculateNumberOfLines
------------------------------------------

A method to find the number of lines of text that fit in a contain based
on the container’s height and the line-height. For this to work it
requires that the container have a designated height. It will not work
with a container whose height is set to auto.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UICalculateNumberOfLines();

**See Also:**

[Element.UIParagraphEllipsis](#UIParagraphEllipsis)

 

Function: Element.UIParagraphEllipsis
-------------------------------------

A method to limit the number of lines of text that appear in a container
and clipping it with an ellipsis. This uses the
Element.UICalculateNumberOfLines() function to get the number of lines
of text that can fit in the container based on its height. The container
must have a fixed height, in other words, it cannot be set to “auto”.
The text will be fine until there is an overflow, at which time the
ellipsis clipping will occur.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIParagraphEllipsis();

**Example:**

    $("#clipedParagraph").UIParagraphEllipsis();

**See Also:**

[Element.UICalculateNumberOfLines](#UICalculateNumberOfLines)

 

Function: Element.UIProgressBar
-------------------------------

A method to create a progress bar. You execute this method on the
container in which you want the progress bar to appear.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIProgressBar(options);

**Parameters:**

-   options: object literal of possible options.
    -   className: an optional class name for the progress bar. This is
        used for to allow changing the default background color of the
        progress bar. The default color is bluish: rgb(56,138,213).
    -   width: an integer indicating the width of the progress bar. The
        default is: 100.
    -   speed: an integer indicating the speed in seconds for the
        animation. The default is 5.
    -   position: an valid flag for the Element.insert method, such as
        “before”, “after” or an integer representing a position in a
        collection of child nodes. The default is “after”.
    -   margin: any valid margin values. In order to center the progress
        bar be sure to designate the left and right margin values as
        “auto”. The default value is: “10px auto”.

**Example:**

 

Function: Element.UIHideNavBarHeader
------------------------------------

This method hides the H1 in a navbar. This is used for the cases where
you want to inject a progress bar in the navbar where the header is.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIHideNavBarHeader();

**Example:**

    $("#toggleProgressBar").on("click", function() {
        if (this.text().trim() == "Show") {
            this.UIToggleButtonLabel("Show", "Hide");
            $("navbar > h1").UIHideNavBarHeader();
            $("navbar").UIProgressBar({margin: "0px auto", speed: 2, width: 160});

        } else if (this.text().trim() == "Hide") {
            this.UIToggleButtonLabel("Show", "Hide");
            $("navbar > h1").UIShowNavBarHeader();
            $("navbar > progressbar").remove();
        }
    });

**See Also:**

[Element.UIShowNavBarHeader](#UIShowNavBarHeader)

 

Function: Element.UIShowNavBarHeader
------------------------------------

This method shows the title (H1) of the navbar that was hidden by the
Element.UIHideNavBarHeader() method.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIShowNavBarHeader();

**Example:**

    $("#toggleProgressBar").on("click", function() {
        if (this.text().trim() == "Show") {
            this.UIToggleButtonLabel("Show", "Hide");
            $("navbar > h1").UIHideNavBarHeader();
            $("navbar").UIProgressBar({margin: "0px auto", speed: 2, width: 160});

        } else if (this.text().trim() == "Hide") {
            this.UIToggleButtonLabel("Show", "Hide");
            $("navbar > h1").UIShowNavBarHeader();
            $("navbar > progressbar").remove();
        }
    });

**See Also:**

[Element.UIHideNavBarHeader](#UIHideNavBarHeader)

 

Function: \$.UIAdjustToolBarTitle
---------------------------------

A method to adjust the length of a title in a navbar. This method is
execute when DOMContentLoad, onorientationchage and window.resize occur.
It check the navbar for the title’s siblings, calculates their widths
and determines, based on the current width of the navbar, how much space
is left for the title. It then adjust the width of the title. By default
the navbar’s title has a text-overflow value of ellipsis, so when the
width of the title is less than the content, the text gets truncated and
replaced with an ellipsis. When there is just enough room for only one
character and an ellipsis, the method hides the title completely.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIAdjustToolBarTitle();

**Example:**

    $.UIAdjustToolBarTitle();

 

Function: \$.UIActivityIndicator
--------------------------------

A function to create an activity indicator. It takes an object literal
of values to create the activity indicator. By default it draws the
activity indicator as a background image on an element of the designated
container. If no container is designated, the method will try to output
it to a container with the class “UIActivityIndicator”, which is already
defined in ChUI.css to display a canvas background image.

When you launch a modal activity indicator, ChocolateChip-UI
automatically create a screen cover like actionsheets, popups and
popovers.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIActivityIndicator(options);

**Parameters:**

-   color: a valid color for the activity indicator
-   size: a valid size using length indicators (px, em, etc) for the
    length of the tines of the indicator
-   position: a value of 'right' or 'left'. This is for positioning the
    activity indicator in a navbar or toolbar. It uses the
    *ui-bar-align* property.
-   modal: if set as 'true', the activity indicator will be output in a
    modal dialog.
-   message: A string message to output with the activity indicator when
    it's modal.
-   duration: an value in milliseconds or second to describe the amount
    of time for one revolution of the activity indicator.

**Example:**

    $('#busy1').UIActivityIndicator({'color':'rgba(200,0,0,0.75)', 'duration': '1.25s', 'size': '50px'});

    $('#busy5').UIActivityIndicator({color: '#ddd', size:'50px'});

    $('navbar').UIActivityIndicator({size: '20px', color:'#fff', position: 'right'});

    $('app').UIActivityIndicator({modal:true, modalMessage:'Loading...'});

**See Also:**

[Element.RemoveUIAcitivityIndicator](#RemoveUIAcitivityIndicator)

 

Function: Element.RemoveUIAcitivityIndicator
--------------------------------------------

A method to remove an activity indicator. You execute the method on the
element containing the activity indicator. If the the acitivy indicator
is modal, it will remove both the modal dialog and the accompanying
mask.

**Syntax:**

    Element.RemoveUIAcitivityIndicator();

**Example:**

    $('app').RemoveUIAcitivityIndicator();

**See Also:**

[Element.UIActivityIndicator](#UIActivityIndicator)

 

Function: \$.UISlider
---------------------

This has been deprecated in favor of native HTML5 range input. See
[onchange event](#range_input) below.

 

Function: onchange (for range input)
------------------------------------

To capture the value of the range input as the user interacts with it by
either dragging its thumb or clicking/touching its track, you just need
to attach an onchange event to the input.

**Example:**

    $('#rangeControl1').on('change', function() {
        console.log($(this).val());
    });

 

Function: Element.UISetTranstionType
------------------------------------

A method to set the type of transition for toggling between two
subviews. Possible transitions are flip, pop, fade and spin. Depending
on the type of transition, it sets up the appropriate CSS on the view so
that the subviews can transition properly. This gets invoked
automatically by element.UIFlipSubview, element.UIPopSubview,
element.UIFadeSubview. and element.UISpinSubview.

**Parameters:**

-   flip:
-   pop:
-   fade:
-   spin:

**See Also:**

[Element.UIFipSubview](#UIFipSubview)

[Element.UIPopSubview](#UIPopSubview)

[Element.UIFadeSubview](#UIFadeSubview)

[Element.UISpinSubview](#UISpinSubview)

 

Function: Element.UIFipSubview
------------------------------

A method for flipping over a subview to reveal another subview, like
flipping a card over to see its back. The method toggles a pair of
classes to trigger the different transitions between the two subviews.
To implement this flipping of subviews, bind this to the uibutton or
other element you want to trigger the action.

**Parameters:**

-   right: Flips the subview over to the right to reveal another subview
    as its back.
-   left: Flips the subview over to the left to reveal another subview
    as its back.
-   top: Flips the subview upwards to reveal another subview as its
    back.
-   bottom: Flips the subview downwards to reveal another subview as its
    back.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIFlipSubview(direction);

**Example:**

    $("#flipbutton").UIFlipSubview("bottom");

**See Also:**

[Element.UISetTranstionType](#UISetTranstionType)

[Element.UIPopSubview](#UIPopSubview)

[Element.UIFadeSubview](#UIFadeSubview)

[Element.UISpinSubview](UISpinSubview)

 

Function: Element.UIPopSubview
------------------------------

A method for popping up or popping out a subview over the current
subview. The method toggles a pair of classes to trigger the different
transitions between the two subviews. To implement this popping of
subviews, bind this to the uibutton or other element you want to trigger
the action.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIPopSubview();

**Example:**

    $("#popbutton").UIPopSubview();

**See Also:**

[Element.UISetTranstionType](#UISetTranstionType)

[Element.UIFipSubview](#UIFipSubview)

[Element.UIFadeSubview](#UIFadeSubview)

[Element.UISpinSubview](#UISpinSubview)

 

Function: Element.UIFadeSubview
-------------------------------

A method to implement the fading in and out of a secondary subview. The
method toggles a pair of classes to trigger the different transitions
between the two subviews. To implement this fading of subviews, bind
this to the uibutton or other element you want to trigger the action.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UIFadeSubview();

**Example:**

    $("#fadebutton").UIFadeSubview();

**See Also:**

[Element.UISetTranstionType](#UISetTranstionType)

[Element.UIFipSubview](#UIFipSubview)

[Element.UIPopSubview](#UIPopSubview)

[Element.UISpinSubview](#UISpinSubview)

 

Function: Element.UISpinSubview
-------------------------------

A method to spin in and out a secondary subview. The method toggles a
pair of classes to trigger the different transitions between the two
subviews. To implement this spinning of subviews, bind this to the
uibutton or other element you want to trigger the action.

**Syntax:**

    Element.UISpinSubview(direction);

**Parameters:**

-   left: Will spin the subview in clockwise.
-   right: Will spin the subview in counterclockwise.

**Example:**

    $("#spinbutton").UISpinSubview("left");

**See Also:**

[Element.UISetTranstionType](#UISetTranstionType)

[Element.UIFipSubview](#UIFipSubview)

[Element.UIPopSubview](#UIPopSubview)

[Element.UIFadeSubview](#UIFadeSubview)

 

Function: \$.UIStepper
----------------------

A method to create a stepper for a set of values. The values can be a
set of strings, such as days or months, or a range of number, such as
from 0-9. The method expects the presence of a stepper tag. See examples
below. When this method initializes the stepper tag, it also creates a
hidden input tag where the values of the stepper are stored.

The method takes a set of options passed as an object literal. The
possible values are as follows.

-   selector: A selector defining the stepper to initialize.
-   name: A name for the stepper’s input.
-   range: value: The range.value object is used to pass in a set of
    strings as values for the stepper. See examples below for how to use
    it.
-   range: Two create a numeric stepper, you can pass in the start and
    end values using range.start and range.end. See the examples below.
-   step: A numerical value by which to increase or decrease the value
    of the stepper. This is for use with numeric values, allowing you to
    create a stepper whose numeric value increase by steps.
-   defaultValue: If the stepper is numeric, a numeric value should be
    passed. If the stepper’s values are strings, a default string value
    can be passed. If no default value is passed, the stepper will be
    set to the first value of the array of strings or numbers.
-   buttonClass: Any valid class names. Use clases to customize the
    colors of the stepper’s increase and decrease buttons.
-   indicator: By default the stepper has increase and decrease buttons
    with up and down arrows. If you want to instead have “plus” and
    “minus” symbols, you can pass the value “plus”.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIStepper(options);

The markup for this stepper would be:

    <stepper id="range2"></stepper>

You could inject a stepper into a document dynamically using this:

    $("#tableview1").insert("<stepper id='stepper1'></stepper");

Then you could initialize it with \$.UIStepper.

**Examples:**

    $.UIStepper({
        selector: "#days", 
        range: {values: ['Sun','Mon','Tue','Wed','Thu','Fri','Sat']}
    });

    $.UIStepper({
        selector: "#months", 
        range: {values: ['Jan','Feb','Mar','Apr','May','Jun','Jul','Aug','Sep','Oct','Nov','Dec']},
        defaultValue: "Mar"
    });

    $.UIStepper({
        selector: "#date", 
        range: {start: 0, end: 31},
        defaultValue: 10,
    });

    $.UIStepper({
        selector: "#range1", 
        range: {start: 0, end: 40},
        step: 4
    });

    $.UIStepper({
        selector: "#range2", 
        buttonClass: "ui-custom-tint", 
        range: {start: 3, end: 30},
        defaultValue: 9,
        step: 3,
        indicator: "plus"
    });

    $.UIStepper({
        selector: "#range3", 
        buttonClass: "ui-custom-tint green", 
        range: {start: 0, end: 96},
        defaultValue: 24,
        step: 12,
        indicator: "plus"
    });

Please examine the examples in stepper.html in the examples folder of
the source code. Notice that you can pass in a custom class for the
stepper's buttons. You can use these classes to style the background
color of the buttons to suit your branding needs.

 

Function: \$.UIPopover
----------------------

A method to create the shell of a popover. Popovers are used on tablets
to provide a panel for additional user options. This may be in the shape
of navigation lists for the displayed content, action lists to toggle
through panels of visible content, or action buttons or icon buttons to
perform actions or function as tools to interact with the visible
content.

**Parameters:**

-   Element trigger: touching this element will open the popover.
-   Popover orientation: a value of top or bottom to position the
    popover from the top of the screen or the bottom.
-   Popover pointer orientation: a value of left, center or right for
    indicating where to position the popover. If the popover has an
    orientation of top, the pointer will be positioned on the left,
    center or top of the popover. If it has an orientation of bottom,
    the pointer will be positioned on the left, center or bottom of the
    popover. In all cases, these positions are used to point at what
    element the user clciked on to show the popover.
-   Options: an object literal of an id or title for the popover.

**Example:**

    $.UIPopover("#showPopover1", "top", "left", {id: "popover1", title: "Popover One"});
    $.UIPopover("#showPopover2", "top", "center", {id: "popover2", title: "Popover Two"});
    $.UIPopover("#showPopover3", "top", "right", {id: "popover3", title: "Popover Three"});
    $.UIPopover("#showPopover4", "bottom", "left", {id: "popover4", title: "Popover Four"});
    $.UIPopover("#showPopover5", "bottom", "center", {id: "popover5", title: "Popover Five"});
    $.UIPopover("#showPopover6", "bottom", "right", {id: "popover6", title: "Popover Six"});

To show the popover, see [Element.UIPopover.show](#UIPopover.show).

There are a number of methods involved in managing the positioning and
repositioning of popovers when there is a screen resize or orientation
change.

-   UIEnablePopoverScrollpanels
-   repositionPopover
-   adjustPopoverPosition
-   determineMaxPopoverHeight
-   determinePopoverWidth
-   getPopoverTrigger
-   adjustPopoverHeight
-   determinePopoverPosition

After creating a popover, you can populate it with whatever you need to.
The content could be a tableview, a navigation list, an actionsheet with
action buttons, or a toolset. To populate a popover, you need to insert
the content into the popover’s scrollpanel:

**Examples:**

    $("#popover1 scrollpanel").insert('<actionsheet>\
        <uibutton ui-kind="action">\
            <label>Set Value</label>\
        </uibutton>\
        <uibutton ui-kind="action" ui-implements="cancel">\
            <label>Cancel</label>\
        </uibutton>\
    </actionsheet>');

**See Also:**

[Element.UIPopover.show](#UIPopover.show)

[Element.UIPopover.show](#UIPopover.hide)

 

Function: \$.UIPopover.show
---------------------------

A method to show a popover. When a popover is show, a transparent screen
mask is also displayed over the app. Touching it will dispel the popover
and also remove the mask.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIPopover.show(popover);

**Example:**

    $("#showPopover1").on("click", function() {
        $.UIPopover.show($("#popover1"));
    });

**See Also:**

[Element.UIBlock](#UIBlock)

[Element.UIUnblock](#UIUnblock)

 

Function: \$.UIPopover.hide
---------------------------

A method to hide a popover. This get called automatically when the user
touches anywhere outside of the popover.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIHide

**Example:**

    $$("popover uibutton[ui-implements=done]").forEach(function(item) { 
        item.on("click", function() {
            var popover = item.ancestor("popover");
            $.UIHidePopover("#" + popover.id);
        });
    });

 

Function: \$.UIHidePopover
--------------------------

A method to hide a popover.

**Syntax:**

    $.UIHidePopover(popover);

**Parameters:**

-   popover: A reference to a currently displayed popover.

**Example:**

    $("#hidePopover").on("click", function() {
        $.UIHidePopover($("#popover1"));
    });

 

Function: \$.UISplitView
------------------------

    A method to initialize a split view layout for iPad. There are a number of other methods involved in making the split view work, managing orientation change, screen resize, hiding and showing the root view when the size or orientation of the screen changes. Here are all the methods:

-   UISetSplitviewOrientation
-   UIToggleRootView
-   UICheckForSplitView
-   UICurrentSplitViewDetail

To implement a split view layout, all you need to do is implement the
layout with the correct markup and attributes. ChocolateChip-UI will
take care of making it all work for you.

If you wish to maintain the visibility of the rootview even in portrait
mode, all you have to do is put the class “SplitViewFixed” on the body
tag:

    <body class="SplitViewFixed">
        <app>...

**See Also:**

[Element.UIBlock](#UIBlock)

[Element.UIUnblock](#UIUnblock)

Function: \$.UIPositionMask
---------------------------

A method for repositioning a screen mask. This is use by ChocolateChip
to keep the mask positioned properly when there is a screen resize or
orientation change.

 

Function: UIAlphabeticalList
----------------------------

A method to turn a tableview with the attribute *ui-kind=”titled-list
alphabetical”*. This method will create a floating menu of the
tableview’s tableheaders as a clickable index for scrolling to sections
of the tableview. All you have to do is provide the tableview with the
attribute as displayed above.


    <tableview ui-kind="titled-list alphabetical">
       <tableheader>A</tableheader>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Albert</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Allen</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Anton</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tableheader>B</tableheader>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Bill</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Bob</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tableheader>C</tableheader>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Charlie</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Craig</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tableheader>D</tableheader>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Dan</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
       <tablecell>
          <celltitle>Dave</celltitle>
       </tablecell>
    </tableview>
